# 3D-faults-shearzones
Code to generate 3D strike- and dip-variable faults and underlying shear zones from surface traces, and associated slip distributions, for use in Coulomb 3.4.

Code is free to use for research purposes, please cite the following paper:
Mildon, Z. K., Toda, S., Faure Walker, J. P. and Roberts, G. P. (2016), Evaluating models of Coulomb stress transfer- is variable fault geometry important?, Geophys. Res. Lett., 43

## Inputs

1) kml files of the surface traces of the faults (stored in the 'Fault_traces' folder) 
2) the dip, rake (using the Aki and Richards (1980) conventions (normal = -90, reverse = 90, left-lateral = 0, right-lateral = 180)), projection direction (i.e. dip direction for the whole fault) must be given as in the example text files
3) field data, which includes a value of throw measured over 15 kyr (code developed for fault scarps in central Italy)

## Running the code
In MATLAB, navigate to the 'faults_3D_v2.0' folder (or similarly named). Execute the script by entering `shear_zones_3D` in the command line or open the shear_zones_3D script and press F5.

The slip distribution will be automatically calculated given the 15kyr throw values given in the field data. Along strike, the code will linearly interpolate between available throw measurements given in the field data file. With depth, the code assumes that the slip profile along the strike of the fault is uniform with depth. The resulting slip distribution is the amount of interseismic slip for one single year.

## Outputs:
Writes a .inr file which can be used directly in Coulomb 3.4, this file is created in the "Output_files" folder. HOWEVER BEFORE using in Coulomb, the #fixed value needs to be changed in the third line of the file. This #fixed value is outputted to the Matlab Command Window when the code is run.

The code also calculates the total seismic moment released by the calculated slip distribution, and displays this in the Matlab Command Window. 

## Assumptions:
  - the slip vector is preserved down dip
  - the trace at the surface continues to depth
  - the dip of the faults are consistent along the length of the fault
  - the slip distribution generated by this code creates a simple bulls eye slip distribution.
  
  ## Version information
Version 1.1 - Written by Zoe Mildon, 2016

Please report any issues or bugs to Zoe Mildon (zoe.mildon@plymouth.ac.uk).
